# Perspective
## August 7, 2022

### Self Sovereign Identity, Feeling Safe, Trust & Letting Go, Self-centralization
I've done a lot of learning since my last comment. Something I'm quite excited about is called "Self-sovereign identity" — there are NPOs already creating governance frameworks around this.

The thing that has been fascinating for me about decentralization is that it is a perfect system for empowering us to collectively agree to dismantle traditional centralized and hierarchical authority. For many years I've had difficulty making money because "making money" to me is all the things you'd expect to a dumb white guy like me: get rich quick schemes, shady marketing tactics, brute force ad spends, etc. 

This launched me into a spiritual journey of letting go of all of this garbage and pursuing my true self – defiant against arbitrary authority (most authority is arbitrary), but not wanting to defy with violence. It has never worked. We can drop as many guillotine blades as we want. People will always do shitty things to gain power because they are so afraid of themselves and the world, they will do everything they can do hoard as much resources as they can to make themselves feel safe. I get it, I have empathy for their fear, but it's not working.

In my mind, the only way to move forward is to let go of hoarding resources, let go of distrust in humanity. People often say, "I've lost faith in humanity." I realized recently that it's not up to humanity to give us faith in it, it's up to us to have that faith for ourselves and lift everyone we can into it as best we can. I see decentralization as a way to do this at a large scale. It removes large clusters of power which results in less shitty behavior because said shitty behavior no longer empowers that ability to gain such power.

To that tune, I am creating an app that generates custom websites (like Squarespace), except more powerful – it will eventually be an app that builds apps. Big tech has too much power in the software space and my project allows people to make apps without needing to know code or require the massive resources a typical startup needs. My act of faith in humanity is to not force my central authority on this app, which is why I am making it open source and will give it an option for decentralized peer-to-peer data transfers.

Something key to decentralization that most decentralized people don't talk about, however, is the ability to self-centralize. I could rant more about that, but it's a similar concept to self-sovereign identity. Either way, my app that builds apps will have an option to provision your own database so that if you are making an app that has HIPAA compliance or some kind of equivalent surrounding privacy and security, you can do that as well.
